# Streaming Data

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- **Project Instructions** - instructions specific to this module
- **Your Files** - how to copy from examples and make them yours
- **Glossary** - project terms and concepts
- **API** - autogenerated look at the code interface

## Custom Project

### Dataset

The Kafka producer uses the sales.csv dataset in the data folder.

The dataset contains records of purchases, with each record containing the info:

- order_id
- datetime
- region_id
- currency_code
- product_id
- unit_price
- quantity
- is_online
- customer_id
- is_new_customer
- device_type
- payment_method
- referral_source
- discount_code
- customer_note

For this project, the original sales dataset was used.
Nothing was modified.

### Kafka Messages

The script kafka_producer_case.py in the src/streaming folder
was used to send messages.

Each message sent is a row from the sales dataset.

The Kafka topic used was streaming-02-kafka-miller.

The region_id field was used as the message key.

The message fields were not altered by the producer.

### Consumer Processing

The script kafka_consumer_miller.py in the src/streaming folder
was used to consume messages.

Each message received is a row from the sales dataset.

A MAX_MESSAGES variable is created.
Either the maximum number of messages is consumed or
the script times out.
In this case, the maximum number of messages is 5.

The consumer logs

- the original message
- whether the message is consumed or skipped
- the count of consumed or skipped messages
- the output message

After each message is consumed, it is added to an output CSV file.

The consumer filters based on the unit_price field.

Only messages with a unit price of $40.00 or greater are consumed.

### Experiments

For the Phase 4 change, the number of messages sent was increased.

From originally 3 messages sent to now 5 messages sent.

For the Phase 5 application, the messages in the consumer were filtered.

As well as being filtered, the log was also updated to account for
skipped messages.

### Results

The producer was never altered so it simply sent 5 messages
from the sales dataset.

The consumer took those 5 messages and consumed 4 of them.

One of the received messages contained a unit_price too low,
so that message was skipped.

### Interpretation

The largest change from the original example would be
the increase in messages sent and received.

Watching messages move through Kafka helps show how
real-time streaming works.

Some messages move quickly through the stream whilst others take
a few more seconds.

The consumer only contained a filter so this could help businesses
understand orders for their more expensive products.

This means that with only the pricier products in the output,
patterns can now be found.

This could be patterns in the region, the payment method,
device type, etc.
